README.md, before:

BrainGPT: High-Performance Transformer with Rotary Embeddings and Flash-Attention
BrainGPT is a specialized Large Language Model (LLM) architecture designed for high-throughput training and extended context handling. This project implements modern Transformer optimizations used in state-of-the-art models to achieve superior memory efficiency and scaling capabilities.

Core Technical Features
Rotary Positional Embeddings (RoPE): Implements a frequency-based rotation mechanism to capture long-range token dependencies effectively, supporting extended context lengths.

Flash-Attention Integration: Supports the flash_attn_qkvpacked_func kernel to reduce attention complexity from O(N 
2
 ) to O(N), significantly optimizing VRAM usage on compatible GPUs.

Distributed Data Parallel (DDP): Fully compatible with torch.distributed for multi-GPU training environments, ensuring seamless model scaling.

Precision and Scaling: Utilizes GradScaler for mixed-precision training and includes a robust BrainTrainer class with gradient clipping and AdamW optimization.

Memory Profiling: Includes a built-in MemoryProfiler to track peak VRAM allocation and system resources during execution.

Model Specifications
Parameter	Value
Maximum Sequence Length	2,048 (Default)
Vocabulary Size	50,000
Embedding Dimension	768
Transformer Layers	12
Attention Heads	12
Installation
Ensure you have a CUDA-capable environment and the following dependencies installed:

Bash
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio
# Optional: Install Flash Attention for hardware acceleration
pip install flash-attn --no-build-isolation
Usage and Testing
Training with DDP

To launch distributed training on multiple GPUs, use the following command:

Bash
torchrun --nproc_per_node=[NUM_GPUS] ul.py
Validation and Export

Memory Benchmarking: The system automatically measures peak VRAM usage upon initialization to ensure hardware efficiency.

ONNX Export: Use the export_model function to generate an optimized brain_model.onnx file with dynamic axes for production deployment.

Project Structure
RotaryEmbedding: Handles relative positional encoding via complex rotations.

CausalSelfAttention: Core attention mechanism with Flash-Attention support.

BrainBlock: Individual Transformer layer including LayerNorm and MLP.

BrainGPT: Full model assembly with embedding and language modeling head.

Commit message:

Initial commit: Implement BrainGPT architecture with RoPE and Flash-Attention
High-performance Transformer implementation featuring Rotary Positional Embeddings (RoPE) and Flash-Attention for distributed training.

README.md, after:

BrainGPT: High-Performance Transformer with Rotary Embeddings and Flash-Attention
BrainGPT is a specialized Large Language Model (LLM) architecture designed for high-throughput training and extended context handling. This project implements modern Transformer optimizations used in state-of-the-art models to achieve superior memory efficiency and scaling capabilities.

Core Technical Features
Rotary Positional Embeddings (RoPE): Implements a frequency-based rotation mechanism to capture long-range token dependencies effectively, supporting extended context lengths up to 32,768 tokens.

Flash-Attention Integration: Supports the flash_attn_qkvpacked_func kernel to reduce attention complexity from O(N 
2
 ) to O(N), significantly optimizing VRAM usage on compatible GPUs.

Distributed Data Parallel (DDP): Fully compatible with torch.distributed for multi-GPU training environments, ensuring seamless model scaling.

Precision and Scaling: Utilizes GradScaler for mixed-precision training and includes a robust BrainTrainer class with gradient clipping and AdamW optimization.

Memory Profiling: Includes a built-in MemoryProfiler to track peak VRAM allocation and system resources during execution.

Model Specifications
Parameter	Value
Maximum Sequence Length	2,048 (Default)
Vocabulary Size	50,000
Embedding Dimension	768
Transformer Layers	12
Attention Heads	12
Installation
Ensure you have a CUDA-capable environment and the following dependencies installed:

Bash
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio
# Optional: Install Flash Attention for hardware acceleration
pip install flash-attn --no-build-isolation
Usage and Testing
Training with DDP

To launch distributed training on multiple GPUs, use the following command:

Bash
torchrun --nproc_per_node=[NUM_GPUS] braingpt.py
Single GPU Execution

For standard execution on a single device:

Bash
python braingpt.py
Validation and Export

Memory Benchmarking: The system automatically measures peak VRAM usage upon initialization via the MemoryProfiler class to ensure hardware efficiency.

ONNX Export: Use the export_model function within the script to generate an optimized brain_model.onnx file with dynamic axes for production deployment.

Project Structure
RotaryEmbedding: Handles relative positional encoding via complex rotations.

CausalSelfAttention: Core attention mechanism with Flash-Attention support.

BrainBlock: Individual Transformer layer including LayerNorm and MLP.

BrainGPT: Full model assembly with embedding and language modeling head.
